OSDOCS-3917:Installing and Configuring the Network Observability operator (#53263)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-operator-install.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:

// * installing-operators.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-operator-installation_{context}"]

= Installing the Network Observability operator
You can install the Network Observability operator using the {product-title} web console Operator Hub.
 
.. In the {product-title} web console, click *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.

> //In the Operator Hub on the test console Julian provided perms for, its NetObserv Operator, with a capital O. 
> .. Choose  *Network Observability operator* from the list of available Operators in the *OperatorHub*, and click *Install*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Choose  *Network Observability Operator* from the list of available Operators in the *OperatorHub*, and click *Install*.
```

```suggestion
```
Yes, the upstream operator (currently the only one available) is `NetObserv Operator`
The downstream one will be `Network Observability Operator`

Author: ACK, thanks for clarifying O vs o.

Reviewer 2: According to legal, the approved name is network observability.

cc @skrthomas

Author: @davegord so no "operator" after? We've been having some discussion about this legal/marketing language guidance as well. In docs, we usually title operators as such, with a capital O.

Author: @bergerhoffer tagging you here re: one of the operator capitalization questions.

// Module included in the following assemblies:

// * installing-operators.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-operator-installation_{context}"]

= Installing the Network Observability operator
You can install the Network Observability operator using the {product-title} web console Operator Hub.
 
.. In the {product-title} web console, click *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.
//In the Operator Hub on the test console Julian provided perms for, its NetObserv Operator, with a capital O. 
.. Choose  *Network Observability operator* from the list of available Operators in the *OperatorHub*, and click *Install*.
.. Navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*. Under Provided APIs for Network Observability, slect the *Flow Collector* resource.
. Navigate to the *Flow Collector* tab, and click *Create FlowCollector*. Make the following slections in the form view:
+
- *Sampling* : Specify a sampling size that will not consume too many resources. For more information, see the FlowCollector custom resource configuration parameters reference table. 
- *deploymentModel*: If you are using Kafka, make sure Kafka is selected.

> - *Loki.url*: Since authentication is specified separately, this URL needs to be updated to `https://lokistack.gateway.http.netobserv.svc.8080/api/logs/v1/network`

Author: @stleerh is this URL correct?

Author: Ok, thanks for clarifying the dashes, the video quality wasn't sharp enough to discern what they were 👍

> -*authToken*: Select `FORWARD`

Reviewer 3: Yes, I would opt for HOST for simplicity.
FORWARD is for multi-tenancy which is only half-baked at the moment, it will come with 4.13, but it's simpler to not mention it for now

> -*authToken*: Select `FORWARD`

Author: Addressed

// Module included in the following assemblies:

// * installing-operators.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-operator-installation_{context}"]

= Installing the Network Observability operator
You can install the Network Observability operator using the {product-title} web console Operator Hub.

.Procedure
 
.. In the {product-title} web console, click *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.
//In the Operator Hub on the test console Julian provided perms for, its NetObserv Operator, with a capital O. 
.. Choose  *Network Observability operator* from the list of available Operators in the *OperatorHub*, and click *Install*.
.. Navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*. Under Provided APIs for Network Observability, select the *Flow Collector* resource.
. Navigate to the *Flow Collector* tab, and click *Create FlowCollector*. Make the following selections in the form view:
+

> - *Sampling* : Specify a sampling size that will not consume too many resources. For more information, see the FlowCollector custom resource configuration parameters reference table. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- *Sampling* : Specify a sampling size for flows, lower sampling sizes will have higher impact on resource utilization. For more information, see the FlowCollector custom resource configuration parameters reference table. 
```

Reviewer 3: +1; maybe also mention where to find this field (it's in the Agent > ebpf section)

- *deploymentModel*: If you are using Kafka, verify Kafka is selected.
- *Loki.url*: Since authentication is specified separately, this URL needs to be updated to `https://loki-gateway.gateway-http.netobserv.svc:8080/api/logs/v1/network`
-*authToken*: Select the `HOST` value.
-*tls.caCert*: Remove the existing values in the `certFile` and `name` fields.

> -*tls.enable* and *tls.insecureSkipVerify*: Check the boxes for both of these specifications.

Reviewer 3: It doesn't look right, we should document using the certificates, and not in "insecure" mode.
So:
- `tls.enable` must be checked

And that's all, `caCert` and `insecureSkipVerify` can be left with their defaults.

Reviewer 3: @memodi / @stleerh / @jpinsonneau can you confirm the above is correct with 5.6? (I tested with 5.5; except the tenant stuff, the URLs haven't changed between 5.5 and 5.6?)

Reviewer 3: @skrthomas in fact, I just realized that the information here is actually correctly described in the "Configuring [...]" section, so wouldn't it be simpler to remove these explanations on configuring FlowCollector here, and just mention and/or link to the next "Configuring [...]" page?

Reviewer 4: @jotak confirming URLs are correct, however I run into `x509: certificate signed by unknown authority fields.level` when using default CA bundle `loki-ca-bundle` on FLP side, I wonder whether we should document this error in troubleshooting doc and suggest to set `insecureSkipVerify` to true ?

Reviewer 3: @memodi sure we can document this issue in troubleshooting and/or known issues. But I wouldn't like to document here `insecureSkipVerify=true` as a default or normal thing - we must promote security by default.

I wonder if you might have an issue about certificate issuer in the specific ocp build you're using? Did you try something different, e.g. with cluster-bot + a release candidate ?

Reviewer 4: @jotak I haven't different launching cluster in a different way, but can try that later. I am also hitting different issue even when I have `insecureSkipVerify=true` https://coreos.slack.com/archives/C02939DP5L5/p1671623085801599

Author: @xenolinux FYI potential Troubleshooting addition.

Author: @jotak I think I still want to leave these here because it is the same, but different in that here I was describing what to do when you're creating the FlowCollector and in the Configuring... describes how to view and edit an existing FlowCollector.

Author: @jotak As far as advising against using `querierUrl`..I'm deliberating the best place to do that. You say not set the `querierUrl` when using the Loki Operator, so is this only a limitation if you install Loki using the Loki Operator? But not if you are using Loki via another type of installation?

Author: @jotak as far as noting about `querierUrl` I'm wondering if I should duplicate this note also in the API reference and here just in case. Seems like we don't want users doing this for sure so better to have it multiple places, even if they are more likely to see it in the Install than the reference table.

Author: I added a link to the Resource and the API Reference, but I have to do it in a weird way due to documentation linking limitations, so its now in Additional Resources at the bottom of the Installing Network Observability operator topic: https://53263--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/networking/network_observability/installing-operators.html#network-observability-operator-installation_network_observability

. Click *Create*. 
. To confirm this was successful, when you navigate to *Observe* you should see *Network Traffic* listed in the options. 

> .. Default filters might show that there are "No results". Beside the filter selections, select *Clear all filters* to see the flow. 

Author: Addressed. Important details thank you!!

// Module included in the following assemblies:

> // * installing-operators.adoc

Reviewer 5: Add the directory path.

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-operator-installation_{context}"]

> 

Reviewer 5: Remove the carriage return between the anchor tag and title.

> = Installing the Network Observability operator

Reviewer 5: Operator should be capitalized.

> You can install the Network Observability operator using the {product-title} web console Operator Hub. When you install the operator, you also create the `FlowCollector` resource. You can set specifications in the web console when you create the  `FlowCollector`.  

Reviewer 5: Operator should be capitalized per the RH Supplementary Style Guide.

.. Navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*. Under Provided APIs for Network Observability, select the *Flow Collector* link.
. Navigate to the *Flow Collector* tab, and click *Create FlowCollector*. Make the following selections in the form view:
+
* *spec.agent.ebpf.Sampling* : Specify a sampling size for flows. Lower sampling sizes will have higher impact on resource utilization. For more information, see the `FlowCollector` API reference, under spec.agent.ebpf. 
* *spec.deploymentModel*: If you are using Kafka, verify Kafka is selected.
* *Loki.url*: Since authentication is specified separately, this URL needs to be updated to `https://loki-gateway.http-netobserv.svc:8080/api/logs/v1/network`
* *loki.tenantID*: Set this to `network`.
* *loki.statusUrl*: Set this to `https://loki-query-frontend-http.netobserv.svc:3100/`.
* *loki.authToken*: Select the `HOST` value.
* *tls.enable*: Verify that the box is checked so it is enabled.
. Click *Create*. 

.Verification

To confirm this was successful, when you navigate to *Observe* you should see *Network Traffic* listed in the options. 

> In the absence of *Application Traffic* within {product-title} cluster, default filters might show that there are "No results", which results in no visual flow. Beside the filter selections, select *Clear all filters* to see the flow. 

Reviewer 5: within the {product-title}. Don't omit articles per ISG.
